---
title: "CMPS115 – Project Reflection Essay"
summary: "My experience in the KAIST GESS program reinforced my entrepreneurial vision of creating a Silicon Valley-like ecosystem in Korea, driven by collaboration, diversity, and innovation."
date: 2015-08-28

# Featured image
# Place an image named `featured.jpg/png` in this page's folder and customize its options here.
# image:
#   caption: 'Image credit: [**Unsplash**](https://unsplash.com)'

authors:
  - admin

tags:
  - News
---



In this quarter, I worked as a product owner in team Gold Moon. The product that we made is a real-time web game application, called ‘bubble war’, using Socket.io technology. In fact, Socket.io released its official version v1.0 in this year, 2015. Since Socket.io enables developers to utilize real-time functionality so easily, I wanted to use it in my project someday. Throughout this course, I learned lots of new technologies that run on JavaScript. Our front-end and back-end technologies are all built on JavaScript language. Node.js is a pretty recent technology that runs server on JavaScript language, which haven’t even released official version (current version: v0.12.7). Actually, there is a movement on web technology called ‘MEAN Stack’ - Mongo.js, Express.js, Angular.js, Node.js - which all the technologies needed for any web application including database and client-side development are based on JavaScript. Though we didn’t use Mongo.js and Angular.js in our project, Mongo.js is effective and free NoSQL database management system runs on JavaScript using BSON format (similar to JSON) and Angular.js is a powerful technology for making front-end motion or effects, which is supported by Google. Our server system is based on Node.js and Express.js with Socket.io. Also we found other useful tools such as Physics.js (js physics engine), Pixi.js (web rendering engine), and TweenLite.js (smooth motion engine) - Physics.js and Pixi.js have MIT license. I enjoyed learning and using them in this project.

To begin with our project story, my team members - Jaewook Woo, Teayeon Kim, Yihan Kim, Eojin Rho - are all close friends. We are live in the same building, living next to my room, and are roommates. We also took another class together, so we could discuss whenever we want. I felt this is a perfect place to start a company. To have scrum meeting, we just had to contact and come gather in my room together. In fact, there were a lot of changes from initial sprint plan because we didn’t check out every technology we need for our application and was not familiar with new stuff, we couldn’t expect accurate time and effort. Initially, we planned to make a tug of war with bubbles but there was problem that making more than 50 bubbles makes the system slow because of the collision detection algorithm. Moreover, we felt it is not fun to just pushing on the space bar quickly to win over opponent. So we designed to make a shooting game with rotating polygon to make the game rather challenging. At first, we begin to learn Physics.js. Downloading a .js file was everything for installation. We inserted it and tested example code in the web page. However, it didn’t work at the beginning - the developers of Physics.js made some mistake on html element specification. We search for the internal code, and we fixed the problem. And we learned lots of functions that are available on Physics.js such as edge-collision, body-collision, gravity, or Newtonian force. Jeawook learned web technology really fast, and he could work on making a game on front-end after a week. I helped Jaewook with a simple jquery code, but he and Eojin and Teayeon worked together, so that Yihan and I can work on the back-end development.

However, there was a big problem in our system. Socket.io is a real-time technology, but it didn’t synchronized client events. Each client computer connects to server doesn’t mean that client computers are also connected directly each other. There was a time gap between the rendered graphics in client web pages. So we had to find the solution for real-time rendering technology. While other members work on the game contents and documentation, Yihan and I discussed about it deeply. Later, we found an example code that uses web worker (web thread) to get the position data constantly from server using Ajax request. It only included the position value x and y for each player’s status. We got this idea, and make it to send all the information about bodies in the world constantly. In order to make compact body data, we chose JSON format. The body element of Physics object has many attributes, and we found where is the unique id, body type (‘circle’ or ‘convex-polygon’), position x and y, and rotation angle. In our code, there is a variable called ‘ballList’, which is a dictionary variable and constantly updated every time the Physics world running on the server takes another step. We set the frame per second to 60, which means newly calculated position data is sent to the client every
0.0167 sec. (The server calculates each step every 0.001 second in fact). Still, there was a problem. If we reduce the interval of data transportation more, it caused another problem due to the Internet speed. And if we don’t use this way, the rendered graphics seemed snapped. So we looked up the example code and found someone using TweenLite to make smooth action. Just putting the time interval with old data and target data, it changes the value smoothly. The secret of our rendering page that looks all the frames connected is on TweenLite. So we were ready to replace the game code running on front-end, which is done by Jaewook, Eojin, and Taeyeon to back-end.

Yihan and I knew how to deal with socket.io at this point. After others finished on front-end game, they send me the code, and I just copy and paste the codes. There was needed a little bit of “glue code”. Then we started to make the login page with modal event, and other html elements such as labels, and tables afterward. In fact, I made big mistake at this point. I was responsible for the merging all the artifacts that each member created. However, I committed on git and pushed, but I didn’t check if it succeeds. I thought it worked and used git pull to get current data from the main repository. However, it deleted all my new works. And it was 5:30 a.m., about 3 and half hours before the final presentation! I panicked but there’s no one who could help me. I calmed down and think rationally, and thought to do my best even though I couldn’t make on time. I thought slowly what did I do last 5 hours step by step. I executed the behaviors exactly the same, and unlike I expected, I finished recovery in just 30 minutes. It took much shorter than the first time I tried to make a new code. That was amazing thing that I also learned during this project. Later on, my teammates made documentation correspond to our product, and also studied for final exam together. It was distressed but memorable.

In this project, I actually know that my other teammates are not familiar with making web service because they don’t have experience. This was first time for them to use JavaScript. However, I knew that it is easy to learn JavaScript for those who are already good at other language, so I promoted this idea. Also Yihan and I had experienced lots of pair programming. Mostly I made the code and he supported me, but since he could understand the abstraction that I’m creating by coding together, he understood where is the code for the specific requirement and the overall architecture. He figured out the architecture slide very well instead of me. I don’t know exactly what happened with Jaewook, Eojin, and Taeyeon but I’ve heard that Jaewook took responsibility on front-end coding and pair programmed with Eojin and Taeyeon. And Eojin was good at Physics, so he helped on mathematical algorithm on physics engine. He also created well-organized documentation for the team with Taeyeon. I don’t think I did more than others. I just already had some experience beforehand and did what I should do. Other members also searched for their job to contribute on team by themselves, so no one complained about their jobs. I think the scrum process worked pretty well for our team. Our team had good circumstance to start a project using agile methodology, and we thought to participate on hackathon sometime. I don’t know others, who watched our presentation thinks about our product, but we enjoyed a lot in this project and everyone contributed on project in some way.